=============
Release Notes
=============

This is the list of changes to scikit-build between each release. For full
details, see the commit logs at http://github.com/scikit-build/scikit-build

Next Release
============

New Features
------------

* Add CMake module :doc:`\cmake-modules/F2PY` useful to find the ``f2py`` executable for building Python
  extensions with Fortran. Thanks to :user:`xoviat` for moving forward with the integration. Concept for the
  module comes from the work of :user:`scopatz` done in `PyNE <https://github.com/pyne/pyne>`_ project.
  See :issue:`273`.

Bug fixes
---------

* Fix support of ``--hide-listing`` when building wheel.

* CMake module :doc:`\cmake-modules/Cython`: Fix escaping of spaces associated with ``CYTHON_FLAGS`` when
  provided as command line arguments to the cython executable through CMake cache entries. See :issue:`265`
  fixed by :user:`neok-m4700`.

Documentation
-------------

* Improve internal API documentation:

  * :mod:`skbuild.platform_specifics.windows`
  * :mod:`skbuild.command`
  * :mod:`skbuild.command.generate_source_manifest`
  * :mod:`skbuild.utils`

Cleanups
--------

* Fix miscellaneous pylint warnings.

Scikit-build 0.6.1
==================

Bug fixes
---------

* Ensure CMake arguments passed to scikit-build and starting with ``-DCMAKE_*``
  are passed to the test project allowing to determine which generator to use.
  For example, this ensures that arguments like ``-DCMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM:FILEPATH=/path/to/program``
  are passed. See :issue:`256`.

Documentation
-------------

* Update :doc:`/make_a_release` section including instructions to update ``README.rst``
  with up-to-date pypi download statistics based on Google big table.


Scikit-build 0.6.0
==================

New features
------------

* Improve ``py_modules`` support: Python modules generated by CMake are now
  properly included in binary distribution.

* Improve developer mode support for ``py_modules`` generated by CMake.


Bug fixes
---------

* Do not implicitly install python modules when the beginning of their name
  match a package explicitly listed. For example, if a project has a package
  ``foo/__init__.py`` and a module ``fooConfig.py``, and only package ``foo``
  was listed in ``setup.py``, ``fooConfig.py`` is not installed anymore.

* CMake module :doc:`\cmake-modules/targetLinkLibrariesWithDynamicLookup`: Fix the
  caching of *dynamic lookup* variables. See :issue:`240` fixed by :user:`blowekamp`.

Requirements
------------

* wheel:  As suggested by :user:`thewtex`, unpinning version of the package
  by requiring ``>=0.29.0`` instead of ``==0.29.0`` will avoid uninstalling a newer
  version of wheel package on up-to-date system.

Documentation
-------------

* Add a command line :ref:`CMake Options <usage_cmake_options>` section to :doc:`Usage <\usage>`.

* Fix :ref:`table <Visual Studio>` listing *Visual Studio IDE* version and
  corresponding with *CPython version* in :doc:`/generators`.

* Improve :doc:`/make_a_release` section.

Tests
-----

* Extend ``test_hello``, ``test_setup``, and ``test_sdist_hide_listing`` to
  (1) check if python modules are packaged into source and wheel distributions
  and (2) check if python modules are copied into the source tree when developer
  mode is enabled.

Internal API
------------

* Fix :meth:`skbuild.setuptools_wrap.strip_package` to handle empty package.

* Teach :meth:`skbuild.command.build_py.build_py.find_modules` function to look
  for `py_module` file in ``CMAKE_INSTALL_DIR``.

* Teach :class:`skbuild.utils.PythonModuleFinder` to search for `python module`
  in the CMake install tree.

* Update :meth:`skbuild.setuptools_wrap._consolidate` to copy file into the CMake
  tree only if it exists.

* Update :meth:`skbuild.setuptools_wrap._copy_file` to create directory only if
  there is one associated with the destination file.

Scikit-build 0.5.1
==================

Bug fixes
---------

* Ensure file copied in "develop" mode have "mode bits" maintained.


Scikit-build 0.5.0
==================

New features
------------

* Improve user experience by running CMake only if needed. See :issue:`207`

* Add support for :ref:`cmake_with_sdist <usage-cmake_with_sdist>` setup keyword argument.

* Add support for ``--force-cmake`` and ``--skip-cmake`` global :ref:`setup command-line options <usage-setuptools_options>`.

* scikit-build conda-forge recipe added by :user:`isuruf`.
  See `conda-forge/staged-recipes#1989 <https://github.com/conda-forge/staged-recipes/pull/1989>`_

* Add support for `development mode <https://packaging.python.org/distributing/#working-in-development-mode>`_. (:issue:`187`).

* Improved :doc:`/generators` selection:

 * If available, uses :ref:`Ninja` build system generator on all platforms. An
   advantages is that ninja automatically parallelizes the build based on the number
   of CPUs.

 * Automatically set the expected `Visual Studio` environment when
   ``Ninja`` or ``NMake Makefiles`` generators are used.

 * Support `Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python 2.7 <http://aka.ms/vcpython27>`_.
   See :issue:`216`.

* Prompt for user to install the required compiler if it is not available. See :issue:`27`.

* Improve :doc:`/cmake-modules/targetLinkLibrariesWithDynamicLookup`  CMake Module extending
  the API of ``check_dynamic_lookup`` function:

 * Update long signature: ``<LinkFlagsVar>`` is now optional
 * Add support for short signature: ``check_dynamic_lookup(<ResultVar>)``.
   See `SimpleITK/SimpleITK#80 <https://github.com/SimpleITK/SimpleITK/pull/80#issuecomment-267617180>`_.

Bug fixes
---------

* Fix scikit-build source distribution and add test. See :issue:`214`
  Thanks :user:`isuruf` for reporting the issue.

* Support building extension within a virtualenv on windows. See :issue:`119`.

Documentation
-------------

* add :doc:`/generators` section

* add :doc:`/changes` section

* allow github issues and users to easily be referenced using ``:issue:`XY```
  and ``:user:`username``` markups.
  This functionality is enabled by the `sphinx-issue <https://github.com/sloria/sphinx-issues>`_ sphinx extension

* make_a_release: Ensure uploaded distributions are signed

* usage:

 * Add empty cross-compilation / wheels building sections
 * Add :ref:`Why should I use scikit-build ? <why>`
 * Add :ref:`Setup options <usage-setup_options>` section

* hacking:

 * Add :ref:`internal_api` section generated using `sphinx-apidoc`.

 * Add :ref:`internal_cmake_modules` to document :doc:`/cmake-modules/targetLinkLibrariesWithDynamicLookup`
   CMake module.

Requirements
------------

* setuptools: As suggested by :user:`mivade` in :issue:`212`, remove the
  hard requirement for ``==28.8.0`` and require version ``>= 28.0.0``. This allows
  to "play" nicely with conda where it is problematic to update the version
  of setuptools. See `pypa/pip#2751 <https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/2751>`_
  and `ContinuumIO/anaconda-issues#542 <https://github.com/ContinuumIO/anaconda-issues/issues/542>`_.

Tests
-----

* Improve "push_dir" tests to not rely on build directory name.
  Thanks :user:`isuruf` for reporting the issue.

* travis/install_pyenv: Improve MacOSX build time updating `scikit-ci-addons`_

* Add ``get_cmakecache_variables`` utility function.

.. _scikit-ci-addons: http://scikit-ci-addons.readthedocs.io

Internal API
------------

* :meth:`skbuild.cmaker.CMaker.configure`: Change parameter name from ``generator_id``
  to ``generator_name``. This is consistent with how generator are identified
  in `CMake documentation <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.7/manual/cmake-generators.7.html>`_.
  This change breaks backward compatibility.

* :meth:`skbuild.platform_specifics.abstract.CMakePlatform.get_best_generator`: Change parameter name
  from ``generator`` to ``generator_name``. Note that this function is also directly importable
  from :mod:`skbuild.platform_specifics`.
  This change breaks backward compatibility.

* :class:`skbuild.platform_specifics.abstract.CMakeGenerator`: This class allows to
  handle generators as sophisticated object instead of simple string. This is done
  anticipating the support for `CMAKE_GENERATOR_PLATFORM <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.7/variable/CMAKE_GENERATOR_PLATFORM.html>`_
  and `CMAKE_GENERATOR_TOOLSET <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.7/variable/CMAKE_GENERATOR_TOOLSET.html>`_. Note also that the
  class is directly importable from :mod:`skbuild.platform_specifics` and is now returned
  by :meth:`skbuild.platform_specifics.get_best_generator`. This change breaks backward compatibility.


Cleanups
--------

* appveyor.yml:

 * Remove unused "on_failure: event logging" and "notifications: GitHubPullRequest"
 * Remove unused SKIP env variable


Scikit-build 0.4.0
==================

New features
------------

* Add support for ``--hide-listing`` option

 * allow to build distributions without displaying files being included

 * useful when building large project on Continuous Integration service limiting
   the amount of log produced by the build

* CMake module: ``skbuild/resources/cmake/FindPythonExtensions.cmake``

 * Function ``python_extension_module``: add support for `module suffix <https://github.com/scikit-build/scikit-build/commit/0a9b7ef>`_

Bug fixes
---------

* Do not package python modules under "purelib" dir in non-pure wheel

* CMake module: ``skbuild/resources/cmake/targetLinkLibrariesWithDynamicLookup.cmake``:

 * Fix the logic checking for cross-compilation (the regression
   was introduced by :issue:`51` and :issue:`47`

 * It configure the text project setting `CMAKE_ENABLE_EXPORTS <https://cmake.org/cmake/help/v3.6/prop_tgt/ENABLE_EXPORTS.html?highlight=enable_export>`_ to ON. Doing
   so ensure the executable compiled in the test exports symbols (if supported
   by the underlying platform)

Docs
----

* Add `short note <http://scikit-build.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cmake-modules.html>`_
  explaining how to include scikit-build CMake module
* Move "Controlling CMake using scikit-build" into a "hacking" section
* Add initial version of `"extension_build_system" documentation <http://scikit-build.readthedocs.io/en/latest/extension_build_system.html>`_

Tests
-----

* tests/samples: Simplify project removing unneeded install rules and file copy

* Simplify continuous integration

 * use `scikit-ci <http://scikit-ci.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and
   `scikit-ci-addons`_
 * speed up build setting up caching

* Makefile:

 * Fix `coverage` target
 * Add `docs-only` target allowing to regenerate the Sphinx documentation
   without opening a new page in the browser.

Scikit-build 0.3.0
==================

New features
------------

* Improve support for "pure", "CMake" and "hybrid" python package

 * a "pure" package is a python package that have all files living
   in the project source tree

 * an "hybrid" package is a python package that have some files living
   in the project source tree and some files installed by CMake

 * a "CMake" package is a python package that is fully generated and
   installed by CMake without any of his files existing in the source
   tree

* Add support for source distribution. See :issue:`84`

* Add support for setup arguments specific to scikit-build:

 * ``cmake_args``: additional option passed to CMake
 * ``cmake_install_dir``: relative directory where the CMake project being
   built should be installed
 * ``cmake_source_dir``: location of the CMake project

* Add CMake module ``FindNumPy.cmake``

* Automatically set ``package_dir`` to reasonable defaults

* Support building project without CMakeLists.txt



Bug fixes
---------

* Fix dispatch of arguments to setuptools, CMake and build tool. See :issue:`118`

* Force binary wheel generation. See :issue:`106`

* Fix support for ``py_modules`` (`6716723 <https://github.com/scikit-build/scikit-build/commit/6716723>`_)

* Do not raise error if calling "clean" command twice

Documentation
-------------

* Improvement of documentation published
  on http://scikit-build.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

* Add docstrings for most of the modules, classes and functions

Tests
-----

* Ensure each test run in a dedicated temporary directory

* Add tests to raise coverage from 70% to 91%

* Refactor CI testing infrastructure introducing CI drivers written in python
  for AppVeyor, CircleCI and TravisCI

* Switch from ``nose`` to ``py.test``

* Relocate sample projects into a dedicated
  home: https://github.com/scikit-build/scikit-build-sample-projects

Cleanups
--------

* Refactor commands introducing ``set_build_base_mixin`` and ``new_style``

* Remove unused code